>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 23: HILLARY'S
CHOICE.
THE CLINTON-KAINE TICKET MAKES
ITS DEBUT ON THE POLITICAL
STAGE, IN FLORIDA.
FIRST LADY, SENATOR, AND
SECRETARY OF STATE: A CLOSER
LOOK AT HILLARY CLINTON'S PUBLIC
RECORD.
AND THE LATEST ON THE
INVESTIGATION OF YESTERDAY'S
MASS SHOOTING, IN MUNICH,
GERMANY.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
TWO DAYS BEFORE THE PARTY'S
NATIONAL CONVENTION BEGINS IN
PHILADELPHIA, A PREVIEW OF THE
DEMOCRATIC TICKET PLAYED OUT
TODAY IN MIAMI.
PRESUMPTIVE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
HILLARY CLINTON INTRODUCED HER
RUNNING MATE FOR VICE PRESIDENT:
TIM KAINE, THE U.S. SENATOR FROM
VIRGINIA.
HILLARY CLINTON BEGAN BY TAKING
AIM AT THE RHETORIC HEARD AT
THIS WEEK'S REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
CONVENTION.
>> DONALD TRUMP MAY THINK
AMERICA IS IN DECLINE, BUT HE'S
WRONG.
AMERICA'S BEST DAYS ARE STILL
AHEAD OF US, MY FRIENDS.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE SAID THE
DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION WOULD
FOCUS ON BUILDING BRIDGES, NOT
WALLS, EMBRACING DIVERSITY, AND
CRITICIZED TRUMP'S APPROACH TO
PROBLEM SOLVING.
>> AND WHEN HE SAYS, AS HE DID
SAY, "I ALONE CAN FIX IT," HE'S
NOT ONLY WRONG, HE'S DANGEROUSLY
WRONG.
>> Sreenivasan: CLINTON
DESCRIBED TIM KAINE AS A LEADER
WHO CARES MORE ABOUT MAKING A
DIFFERENCE THAN MAKING
HEADLINES, AND AS SOMEONE WITH A
BACKBONE OF STEEL, CITING HIS
PUSH TO BAN GUNS FOR THE
MENTALLY ILL FOLLOWING THE 2007
VIRGINIA TECH MASS SHOOTING.
SPEAKING IN FLORIDA, A STATE
WHERE ONE OUT OF FOUR RESIDENTS
IS LATINO, KAINE CALLED FOR AN
EASIER PATH TO CITIZENSHIP FOR
IMMIGRANTS AND FREQUENTLY SHOWED
OFF HIS BILINGUAL SKILLS.
>> BIENVENIDOS A TODOS EN
NUESTRA PAIÃS.
VERDAD?
>> Sreenivasan: KAINE IS 58
YEARS OLD.
HE IS IN HIS FIRST TERM AS THE
SENATOR FROM VIRGINIA AFTER
SERVING AS THE STATE'S GOVERNOR
AND THE MAYOR OF RICHMOND.
HE'S NEVER LOST AN ELECTION.
THE SON OF AN IRONWORKER, HE
WOULD BE THE NATION'S SECOND
CATHOLIC VICE PRESIDENT, AFTER
JOE BIDEN.
CONTRASTING THE NOMINEES, KAINE
SAID CLINTON DOES NOT TRASH OUR
ALLIES BUT RESPECTS THEM.
>> TRUMP SAYING HE WOULD LEAVE
OUR ALLIES AT THE MERCY OF AN
INCREASINGLY AGGRESSIVE RUSSIA.
AND FOLKS, THAT'S AN OPEN
INVITATION FOR VLADIMIR PUTIN TO
JUST ROLL ON IN.
EVEN A LOT OF REPUBLICANS SAY
THAT THAT'S TERRIBLY DANGEROUS.
>> Sreenivasan: HE ALSO
CRITICIZED TRUMP'S BUSINESS
RECORD.
>> FROM ATLANTIC CITY TO HIS SO-
CALLED UNIVERSITY, HE LEAVES A
TRAIL OF BROKEN PROMISES AND
WRECKED LIVES WHEREVER HE GOES.
>> Sreenivasan: SUSAN SWECKER,
THE HEAD OF VIRGINIA'S
DELEGATION TO THE DEMOCRATIC
CONVENTION, HAS KNOWN KAINE FOR
20 YEARS.
>> HE IS A VERY GENUINE PERSON,
BUT ALSO A VERY STRONG PERSON,
AND SOMEONE WHO HAS GOT A WEALTH
OF EXPERIENCE.
A PERSON OF INTEGRITY.
>> Sreenivasan: CALIFORNIA
DELEGATE DEBORAH BRONER SAID SHE
WAS EXCITED BY THE PICK.
>> HIS EXPERIENCE AS AN ATTORNEY
WITH CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUES ARE
IMPORTANT TO ALL OF US AS
DEMOCRATS AND AS AMERICANS.
I BELIEVE THAT HIS EARLY
EDUCATION LEADERSHIP IN VIRGINIA
WILL BE ESSENTIAL AND
COMPLEMENTARY TO HILLARY CLINTON
AND HER PRESIDENCY.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT CHUCK
PASCAL, A PENNSYLVANIA DELEGATE
FOR BERNIE SANDERS, SAID HE HAD
HOPED FOR SOMEONE ELSE.
>> I'VE BEEN HEARING A LOT OF
PUSH BACK FROM THE PROGRESSIVE
SIDE, MAINLY BECAUSE HE DOESN'T
EXCITE ANY PARTICULAR PART OF
THE BASE, AND HIS RECORD HAS
BEEN MIXED IN SOME THINGS LIKE
TRADE.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE
ANALYSIS OF THE KAINE PICK, I AM
JOINED FROM PHILADELPHIA BY
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JEFF GREENFIELD.
JEFF, WHY TIM KAINE?
HOW DOES HE HELP HILLARY
CLINTON?
>> WELL, IT'S A CHOICE THAT
ACTUALLY, MANY PEOPLE HAD
PREDICTED BECAUSE IT WAS-- IF
NOTHING ELSE, IT WAS A WAY OF
COMMUNICATING THAT HILLARY
CLINTON, AS SHE SAID, HAS A
REASONABLENESS GENE.
MAYOR, LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR,
GOVERNOR, SENATOR.
THE REVERSE OF A DONALD TRUMP
WITH NO EXPERIENCE.
I THINK WHAT MAYBE NOT MANY
PEOPLE EXPECTED WAS THAT THE
ROLL-OUT TODAY SHOWED A TIM
KAINE THAT VERY FEW OF US KNEW--
REALLY GOOD ON HIS FEET, VERY
WARM, VERY MOVING, VERY FUNNY,
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES FOR A
GREAT LENGTH OF TIME.
SO I THINK AFTER HE APPEARED,
THERE WERE MORE PEOPLE WHO SAID,
"OH, I SEE WHY SHE PICKED HIM."
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE WAS
A DIFFERENT VIBE IN THAT
ROLL-OUT SPEECH AS WELL.
DONALD TRUMP GOT A LOT OF
CRITICISM FOR THE FACT THAT HE
DIDN'T EVEN STAY ON STAGE VERY
LONG WITH MIKE PENCE.
>> YEAH, I THINK-- I THINK PART
OF WHAT THEY WERE TRYING TO
COMMUNICATE WAS, THIS IS A
COMFORTABLE TWO-SOME.
SHE'S NOT UPSTAGING HIM.
SHE'S PERFECTLY HAPPY TO SIT
THERE AND LET HIM TALK AT GREAT
LENGTH, TO LET HIM INTRODUCE
HIMSELF TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
BUT I ALSO THINK THE WAY TIM
KAINE TOLD ALL THOSE STORIES--
YOU KNOW THAT HE SENT HIS
KIDS TO THE SAME INTEGRATED
SCHOOL THAT HIS WIFE'S FATHER,
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR, HAD
INTEGRATED.
WHAT IT MEANT TO BE IN
HONDURAS.
WHAT IT MEANT TO BE THE GOVERNOR
DURING THE VIRGINIA TECH
MURDERS.
YEAH, I THINK SHE WAS SAYING TO
THE COUNTRY, "I REALLY AM
COMFORTABLE WITH WHO I PICKED,
AND YOU'RE GOING TO BE
COMFORTABLE AFTERWARDS."
AND I ALSO THINK A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO WANTED TO SEE A MORE
LIBERAL OR PROGRESSIVE CANDIDATE
MAY HAVE HAD SECOND THOUGHTS
AFTER HEARING KAINE, THINKING I
GET THIS PICK.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS WASN'T
SOMEONE BERNIE SANDERS' FOLKS
HAD SUPPORTED BEFORE OR AFTER
THE SPEECH.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
BUT I THINK THERE IS A
COMFORTABLE LEVEL THEY MAY HAVE
REACHED BECAUSE A LOT OF WHAT
TIM KAINE WAS COMMUNICATING WERE
PROGRESSIVE VALUES.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THE
CLINTONS ARE GRUDGE HOLDERS.
IN 2008, AT A CRITICAL POINT IN
THE PRIMARY, TIM KAINE ENDORSED
BARACK OBAMA, AND THIS AT LEAST
SHOWS THAT, YOU KNOW, HILLARY
CLINTON DOES NOT WALK AROUND FOR
EIGHT YEARS THINKING, WELL HE
DIDN'T BACK ME.
WHY SHOULD I PICK HIM?
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNOW, HE
WAS AN EARLY SUPPORTER OF
HILLARY CLINTON BEFORE SHE EVEN
DECLARED.
I THINK IT WAS IN 2014 WHEN HE
STARTED OUT.
THE FACT HE WAS SPEAKING SPANISH
IN AND OUT OF THIS CONVERSATION,
THE FACT THAT THEY CHOSE TO DO
THIS IN FLORIDA, A KEY
BATTLEGROUND STATE, IMPORTANT?
>> YEAH, I WOULD SAY THAT DOES
NOT COME UNDER THE HEADING OF
"COINCIDENCE."
I'VE SEEN OF ONE OF TRUMP'S
SUPPORTERS COMPLAIN ABOUT THIS--
WHY ARE YOU SPEAKING SPANISH
WHEN YOU'RE RUNNING FOR VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES?
BUT I THINK IT'S PRETTY CLEAR,
GIVEN HOW THIS CAMPAIGN IS GOING
TO SHAPE UP, THE CLEAR DRIVE ON
THE PART OF THE CLINTON PEOPLE
TO MAKE DEMOGRAPHICS WORK FOR
THEM AND TRY TO GET A HISPANIC
VOTE OUT.
HISPANICS REPRESENT AN
INCREASING PART OF THE
POPULATION BUT TRADITIONALLY
THEY HAVE NOT VOTED IN ANYTHING
LIKE THEIR NUMBERS OF CITIZENS.
SO I THINK HIM CAMPAIGNING IN
FLORIDA, SPEAKING VERY
COMFORTABLY IN SPANISH, I HAVE A
FEELING YOU'RE GOING TO SEE A
LOT MORE OF THAT AS THE CAMPAIGN
GOES ON IN ARIZONA, COLORADO,
NEW MEXICO IS A SAFE DEMOCRATIC
STATE NOW.
BUT, YEAH, THAT'S CLEARLY AN
ASSET THAT THEY SEE THEY'RE
GOING TO PLAY.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE ELECTORAL MAP?
HE'S THE VIRGINIAN, AND HE IS
A-- YOU KNOW, HE'S SOMEBODY WHO
HAS WORKED ACROSS PARTY LINES IN
VIRGINIA, AND HOPEFULLY, I
IMAGINE THAT HILLARY CLINTON
CAMPAIGN THINKS HE CAN DELIVER
THAT STATE.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN MUCH OF THAT IN
RECENT YEARS.
OF VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
PICKED BECAUSE OF GEOGRAPHY.
AND THERE'S SOME ACADEMIC
SKEPTICISM ABOUT HOW MUCH THAT
EVER WORKS.
BUT SURELY, YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
A MAN ELECTED TO STATEWIDE
OFFICE THERE THREE TIMES IN A
STATE THAT USED TO BE ONE OF THE
MOST REPUBLICANS, GONE
DEMOCRATIC THE LAST TWO
ELECTIONS.
AND IF CLINTON CAN KEEP VIRGINIA
IN HER COLUMN, THAT MAKES THE
PATH FOR DONALD TRUMP JUST THAT
MUCH MORE HARDER.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
JEFF GREENFIELD JOINING US FROM
PHILADELPHIA.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: HILLARY CLINTON
HAS SPENT ROUGHLY HALF OF HER
NEARLY 69 YEARS IN PUBLIC LIFE,
AS FIRST LADY OF ARKANSAS, AND
OF THE UNITED STATES.
AS A U.S. SENATOR FROM NEW YORK,
AND AS SECRETARY OF STATE.
BUT FAIRLY OR UNFAIRLY, THE
WHIFF OF SCANDAL HAS LINGERED
OVER HER WHITE HOUSE RUN-- FROM
THE CLINTONS' INVESTMENT IN THE
WHITEWATER REAL ESTATE DEAL IN
ARKANSAS, TO THE MORE RECENT
F.B.I. PROBE OF HER USE OF A
PRIVATE EMAIL SERVER WHILE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
OPINION POLLS REFLECT THAT.
CLINTON IS, LIKE HER REPUBLICAN
OPPONENT, DONALD TRUMP, A
POLARIZING FIGURE-- ON ONE HAND,
SHE HAS TOPPED THE GALLUP POLL
OF "MOST ADMIRED WOMAN" EACH OF
THE LAST 14 YEARS AND 20 TIMES
OVERALL.
ON THE OTHER HAND, A "REAL CLEAR
POLITICS" AVERAGE OF POLLS FINDS
56% OF AMERICANS HAVE AN
UNFAVORABLE VIEW OF HER, AND 67%
OF AMERICANS TOLD A "CBS NEWS/
NEW YORK TIMES" POLL THIS MONTH
THEY DO NOT FIND HER HONEST OR
TRUSTWORTHY.
TO EXAMINE HER RECORD OF SERVICE
AS FIRST LADY, SENATOR, AND
SECRETARY OF STATE, I SAT DOWN
THIS WEEK WITH THE AUTHORS OF
TWO BOOKS ABOUT HER.
MICHAEL TOMASKY WROTE "HILLARY'S
TURN: INSIDE HER IMPROBABLE,
VICTORIOUS SENATE CAMPAIGN."
HE IS NOW IS A CORRESPONDENT FOR
"THE DAILY BEAST."
AND MARK LANDLER WROTE "ALTER
EGOS: HILLARY CLINTON, BARACK
OBAMA AND THE TWILIGHT STRUGGLE
OVER AMERICAN POWER."
HE'S A "NEW YORK TIMES" WHITE
HOUSE CORRESPONDENT.
>> Sreenivasan: BACK IN 1992,
BILL CLINTON SAID, "YOU'RE GOING
TO GET TWO FOR THE PRICE OF
ONE."
SHE'S GOING TO BE PART OF MY
POLICIES, AND SHE WAS.
SHE WAS HEAD OF THE HEALTH
CARE REFORM TASK FORCE; IT
DIDN'T DO WELL IN CONGRESS.
WHAT'S HER LASTING LEGACY FROM
THAT ERA?
>> SHE WAS THE FIRST
PROFESSIONAL FIRST LADY, THE
FIRST FEMINIST FIRST LADY, THE
FIRST FIRST LADY FROM THE '60s
GENERATION, THE FIRST FIRST LADY
WHO WAS THE BREADWINNER IN THE
FAMILY.
A LOT OF AMERICA LIKED AND
ADMIRED THAT.
OTHER PARTS OF AMERICA FOUND
THAT UNAPPETIZING, AND EVEN KIND
OF THREATENING.
AND SO SHE BECAME A FLASHPOINT
SIMPLY FOR WHO SHE WAS.
>> Sreenivasan: PICKING UP ON
THAT WOMEN'S RIGHTS THEME, ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT SHE DID WAS
IN '95, SHE FAMOUSLY SPOKE OUT.
>> IT IS NO LONGER ACCEPTABLE TO
DISCUSS WOMEN'S RIGHTS AS
SEPARATE FROM HUMAN RIGHTS.
>> IF YOU REMEMBER, IT WAS RIGHT
AFTER THE HEALTH CARE DEBACLE.
SO SHE GOES TO BEIJING, DELIVERS
THIS-- BY ALL ACCOUNTS, JUST
FERVENT SPEECH, AND EVEN TO THIS
DAY, MANY YEARS LATER, IT'S
PROBABLY IN THE TOP FIVE, IF NOT
THE TOP THREE SPEECHES SHE'S
EVER DELIVERED.
AND IT ALSO REALLY WAS THE
SPEECH THAT CATAPULTED HER ONTO
THE GLOBAL STAGE AND KIND OF SET
THE STAGE FOR THE NEXT CHAPTER
OF HER CAREER, WHICH WAS AS A
SORT OF A GLOBAL FIGURE, A
GLOBAL STATESWOMAN.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER BILL
CLINTON'S PRESIDENCY, AFTER HE'S
IMPEACHED IN '99, HILLARY
CLINTON DECIDES TO RUN IN A
STATE SHE DOES NOT LIVE IN,
SOMETHING THAT HER OPPONENTS
PICKED UP VERY QUICKLY, LABELING
HER THE CARPETBAGGER.
HOW DID SHE WIN WITH THOSE ODDS
STACKED AGAINST HER?
>> FOUR DAYS AFTER THE 1998
ELECTION, PAT MOYNIHAN, THE
LONG-TIME REVERED NEW YORK
SENATOR, ANNOUNCED THAT HE WAS
GOING TO RETIRE.
HE WAS UP FOR REELECTION IN
2000.
AND NEW YORK DEMOCRATS WERE
CASTING ABOUT, WHO ARE WE GOING
TO RUN?
BECAUSE THE REPUBLICANS HAD RUDY
GIULIANI AND GEORGE PATAKI, AT
THE TIME BOTH QUITE FORMIDABLE
FIGURES.
AND THE DEMOCRATS DIDN'T REALLY
HAVE ANYONE OF THAT STATURE.
SO THEY APPROACHED HER AND SAID,
"WHY DON'T YOU CONSIDER DOING
THIS?"
AND AT FIRST SHE SAID, "WHAT ARE
YOU TALKING ABOUT, I'M NOT A NEW
YORKER."
HOW SHE FINALLY DID IT?
PERSEVERANCE AND, AND STEADY,
YOU KNOW, SOMEWHAT BORING STICK-
TO-IT-IVENESS.
SHE JUST KEPT HER HEAD DOWN AND
WENT AND GAVE HER SPEECH ABOUT
THE ISSUES, AND ULTIMATELY SHE
WON OVER PEOPLE, WON THEIR
RESPECT.
>> Sreenivasan: IF YOU HAD TO
COMPRESS HER LEGISLATIVE
ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE SENATE, WHAT
WOULD THOSE BE?
>> SHE WAS IN THE SENATE FOR
EIGHT YEARS.
SHE HAD A PART IN A NUMBER OF
PIECES OF LEGISLATION, AND OF
COURSE SHE WAS THE SENATOR FROM
NEW YORK WHEN 9/11 HAPPENED, SO
SHE AND CHUCK SCHUMER WERE, BY
ALL ACCOUNTS THAT I KNOW OF,
VERY ACTIVE IN HELPING FIRST
RESPONDERS AND OTHER VICTIMS OF
THE 9/11 ATTACK.
SO I THINK SHE WOULD PROBABLY
POINT TO THAT AS A HIGH POINT, A
FEW THINGS SHE DID ON EDUCATION.
THERE IS NO BIG LEGISLATION THAT
BEARS HER NAME, AND THAT'S TRUE
OF A LOT OF SENATORS.
>> SHE REALLY TRANSFORMED
HERSELF INTO A NATIONAL SECURITY
EXPERT.
YOU KNOW, SHE DECIDED TO JOIN
THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES
COMMITTEE, AND SHE BECAME A REAL
MILITARY WONK.
SHE WAS FAMOUS FOR GOING TO
EVERY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING AND
METHODICALLY QUESTIONING EVERY
LIEUTENANT COLONEL FROM THE
PENTAGON ABOUT DEFENSE
PROCUREMENT OR SELECTIVE SERVICE
BENEFITS.
SO THAT'S WHERE SHE REALLY BEGAN
TO CARVE OUT AND HONE THIS
REPUTATION AS A HAWK, THAT I
THINK HAS FOLLOWED HER THROUGH
THE SECRETARY OF STATE YEARS AND
THEN INTO THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN.
>> WE'D BE REMISS NOT TO NOTE,
OF COURSE, HER IRAQ WAR VOTE.
>> OF COURSE.
>> WHICH SHE CAST, PROBABLY
BECAUSE SHE HAD HER EYE ON THE
PRESIDENCY.
AND SO THAT ONE HAS HUNG AROUND
HER NECK AND NOT STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE FOR
POLITICAL CALCULATION THAN FOR
WHETHER OR NOT SHE FELT LIKE
TROOPS SHOULD BE THERE?
>> WELL, HER DEFENSE HAS ALWAYS
BEEN THAT SHE VOTED FOR
AUTHORIZATION AS A WAY TO
PRESSURE SADDAM HUSSEIN TO COME
CLEAN ON THE WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION, BUT THAT TURNED OUT
NOT TO HAVE EXISTED.
BUT IT'S PROBABLY NOT A
COINCIDENCE THAT SHE AND JOHN
KERRY AND JOHN EDWARDS, ALL
THREE WHO WERE LOOKING AT THE
PRESIDENCY, VOTED FOR THAT WAR.
>> AND IF YOU THEN GO THROUGH
HER RECORD AS SECRETARY OF
STATE, WHETHER IT WAS THE TROOP
SURGE IN AFGHANISTAN, THE
MILITARY INTERVENTION IN LIBYA,
THE DEBATE OVER ARMING THE
REBELS IN SYRIA, SHE FAIRLY
GENERALLY CAME DOWN ON THE
HAWKISH END OF THE SPECTRUM.
NOW THERE'S BEEN A CONTINUING
DEBATE OVER WHETHER SHE DOES
THAT BECAUSE IT'S BORNE OF
PRINCIPLE OR WHETHER SHE DOES
THAT FOR POLITICAL CALCULATION,
AND I THINK AS WITH EVERYTHING
WITH HILLARY CLINTON, IT'S
PROBABLY SOME COMPLICATED
MIXTURE OF THE TWO.
BUT I THINK THAT THERE'S NO
QUESTION THAT SHE HAS GENERALLY
BEEN MORE COMFORTABLE WITH
EXERCISING MILITARY POWER TO
ADVANCE AMERICAN INTERESTS,
CERTAINLY THAN THE PRESIDENT SHE
SERVED AS SECRETARY OF STATE.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE WAS ALSO
PRETTY INSTRUMENTAL IN DRIVING
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION INTO
THE COALITION IN LIBYA.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND HILLARY
CLINTON ARE GETTING AN EARFUL OF
BLAME.
THERE WAS ALMOST AN ENTIRE NIGHT
DEVOTED TO HER, AND CHRIS
CHRISTIE EVEN ESSENTIALLY
PROSECUTED HER, FICTITIOUSLY, ON
STAGE.
HOW MUCH OF THE DECISIONS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION CAN BE ATTRIBUTED
TO THE IMPACT THAT HILLARY
CLINTON HAD ON BARACK OBAMA?
>> I THINK THE LIBYA DECISION,
SHE WAS AN IMPORTANT VOICE,
PERHAPS THE IMPORTANT VOICE IN
TURNING AROUND THE PRESIDENT.
HE WAS EXTREMELY SKEPTICAL ABOUT
GOING INTO LIBYA, AS HONESTLY
WAS SHE AT THE VERY BEGINNING.
SHE, THROUGH HER DIPLOMATIC
TRAVELS, WAS PERSUADED THAT IT
COULD BE DONE WITH A BROAD
COALITION, AND THAT IT WAS WORTH
DOING.
IF YOU LOOK AT OTHER ONES
THOUGH, FOR EXAMPLE SYRIA, SHE
AND GENERAL PETRAEUS, WHO WAS
THEN HEAD OF THE C.I.A., ARGUED
FAIRLY FERVENTLY FOR ARMING THE
REBELS.
AND THEY WERE TURNED DOWN WHEN
THEY MADE THEIR PITCH.
THE PRESIDENT LATER CAME AROUND
TO THE IDEA IN SORT OF A HALF-
HEARTED WAY AND ENDED UP SENDING
A SMALL NUMBER OF WEAPONS TO THE
REBELS.
I MEAN, MANY OF THE THINGS WERE
RUN VERY HEAVILY OUT OF THE
WHITE HOUSE.
THE RELATIONSHIP WITH
RUSSIA, THE IRAN NUCLEAR
NEGOTIATION-- THESE ARE AREAS
WHERE PRESIDENT OBAMA PLAYED A
VERY STRONG ROLE HIMSELF, AND
HER BATTLE WAS LESS TO WIN THE
DEBATE THAN TO CARVE OUT SOME
TERRITORY IN THOSE ISSUES FOR
HERSELF.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE CONTEXT
OF LIBYA, BENGHAZI IS THE WORD
THAT THE REPUBLICANS HAVE CLUNG
ONTO FOR REALLY THE PAST COUPLE
OF YEARS, HUNG IT AROUND HER
NECK AND SAID THAT SHE IS SOLELY
RESPONSIBLE.
LITERALLY, WE'VE SEEN THE MOTHER
OF ONE OF THE SOLDIERS THAT WERE
KILLED THERE, SPEAKING AT THE
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION.
SORT OF TWO QUESTIONS--
WHY ARE REPUBLICANS STILL
TALKING ABOUT IT, AND TWO, WHAT
IS SHE RESPONSIBLE FOR?
>> I'M SURE ON SOME LEVEL, MANY
REPUBLICANS ARE GENERALLY AGHAST
AT THE LOSS OF LIFE THERE, BUT
SHE'S GENUINELY AGHAST AT THAT
LOSS OF LIFE TOO.
SHE WAS A FRIEND OF CHRIS
STEVENS, A GOOD FRIEND OF CHRIS
STEVENS.
SO I THINK THEY'RE DOING IT
LARGELY TO TARNISH HER
POLITICALLY.
AND THERE HAVE BEEN NUMEROUS
INVESTIGATIONS OF IT, NONE OF
WHICH HAS EVER PLACED ANY
PARTICULAR CULPABILITY RIGHT AT
HER DOOR.
>> I THINK THE BIGGER ISSUE FOR
HER, FRANKLY, IS TO TALK ABOUT
LIBYA MORE BROADLY.
WHAT DID GO WRONG IN LIBYA, WHAT
REAL LESSON SHOULD WE LEARN FROM
WHAT WAS, BY ALL ACCOUNTS, A
MISBEGOTTEN INTERVENTION, AND IF
SHE WERE PRESIDENT AND FACED A
SIMILAR DECISION, HOW WOULD SHE
THINK OF IT DIFFERENTLY, HOW
WOULD SHE ACT DIFFERENTLY, HOW
CAN AMERICANS SOLVE THIS WHOLE
QUESTION OF INTERVENTION?
WE EITHER SEEM TO INTERVENE IN
TOO GIGANTIC A WAY, AS WE DID IN
IRAQ, OR WE DON'T INTERVENE
ADEQUATELY ENOUGH, AND ALLOW A
SITUATION TO FALL INTO A MAYHEM
AS WE DID IN LIBYA.
SO I THINK THOSE ARE THE
SUBSTANTIVE ISSUES THAT I THINK
SHE'LL HAVE TO CONTEND WITH, IN
THE GENERAL ELECTION DEBATE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHERE DOES SHE
WALK LOCKSTEP WITH THE
PRESIDENT, AND WHERE HAS SHE
BROKEN WITH HIM?
>> THERE ARE CERTAIN POSITIONS
THAT SHE HAS HAD TO TAKE THAT
SHE HAS NOT TAKEN IN THAT PAST
THAT ARE OPPOSITE OF OBAMA OR
AGAINST OBAMA, BECAUSE OF THIS
MOVEMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
TO A POPULIST LEFT ECONOMIC
POSTURE THAT BERNIE SANDERS
REPRESENTS.
SO THE MOST OBVIOUS THING I'M
TALKING ABOUT HERE IS TRADE AND
THE TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP,
WHICH SHE NOW OPPOSES, AND WHICH
OBAMA IS STILL FOR, AND I THINK
WILL CONTINUE TO PUSH FOR, AND
WILL PROBABLY TRY TO GET A VOTE
IN A LAME DUCK SESSION OF
CONGRESS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT WOULD
HILLARY CLINTON'S FOREIGN POLICY
BE?
IF THERE WAS A DOCTRINE, WOULD
IT BE "STRENGTH WITH CAUTION?"
>> I THINK WHAT IT WOULD BE IS A
SORT OF A VERY PRAGMATIC
APPROACH.
AND THE WAY I LIKE TO THINK OF
IT IS, THAT I THINK PRESIDENT
OBAMA CAME INTO OFFICE WITH A
VERY STRONG IDEA THAT HE'D BEEN
ELECTED TO WEAN THIS COUNTRY
AWAY FROM THE MILITARY EXCESSES
OF THE GEORGE W. BUSH YEARS.
I DON'T THINK SHE NECESSARILY
COMES INTO OFFICE WITH ANOTHER
BIG IDEA.
SO I THINK REALLY WHAT SHE WOULD
DO IS WEIGH EACH PROBLEM AS IT
CAME UP, PIECEMEAL, LOOK FOR A
PRAGMATIC SOLUTION.
SHE'D EMPHASIZE DIPLOMACY FIRST,
BUT IF DIPLOMACY FAILED, I THINK
SHE'D BE MORE WILLING TO
CONSIDER MILITARY FORCE AS SORT
OF A LAST RESORT.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST WEEK WE HAD
A COUPLE OF TRUMP BIOGRAPHERS
ON.
THEY SAID ONE OF THE QUALITIES
THEY LIKED ABOUT HIM WAS HIS
RESILIENCY-- THAT HE CAN BOUNCE
BACK.
CAN THE SAME BE SAID OF HILLARY
CLINTON?
>> OH, SURE.
SHE HAS BEEN INVESTIGATED, I
DON'T KNOW HOW MANY TIMES, FROM
WHITEWATER AND ALL THESE THINGS
GOING BACK TO THE 1990s, MANY OF
THEM DURING HER HUSBAND'S
ADMINISTRATION, AND THEN
CONTINUING INTO HER TIME AT
STATE.
IT COULD HAVE BEATEN DOWN A
PERSON WHO WASN'T QUITE AS TOUGH
AS SHE, DRIVEN THEM FROM PUBLIC
LIFE.
SHE HAD EVERY REASON TO THINK IN
1999, "FORGET THIS, I'M GOING TO
GO OFF AND RUN A HUGE FOUNDATION
AND MAKE A LOT OF MONEY AND NOT
WORRY ABOUT THIS ANYMORE."
BUT NO, SHE STAYED IN IT, AND
NOW SHE'S ON THE PRECIPICE OF
MAYBE OF BEING THE PRESIDENT.
IF SHE'S ANYTHING, IT'S
RESILIENT.
>> Sreenivasan: MARK LANDLER,
MICHAEL TOMASKY, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: SEE HOW ARTISTS
ARE RESPONDING TO THE POLITICAL
CONVENTIONS ON OUR WEB SITE.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: GERMAN POLICE
ARE PROBING FOR A MOTIVE BEHIND
AN 18-YEAR-OLD'S MASS SHOOTING
IN DOWNTOWN MUNICH YESTERDAY,
WHICH KILLED NINE PEOPLE,
INCLUDING SEVEN TEENAGERS, AND
WOUNDED 27 OTHERS.
THE RAMPAGE BEGAN OUTSIDE A
McDONALD'S NEAR THE CITY CENTER
BEFORE THE GUNMAN MOVED ACROSS
THE STREET TO A SHOPPING MALL.
HOURS AFTER THE ATTACK, THE
SHOOTER WAS FOUND DEAD OF AN
APPARENT SELF-INFLICTED GUNSHOT
WOUND.
HE WAS CARRYING A HANDGUN AND
300 EXTRA BULLETS IN HIS
BACKPACK.
TODAY, GERMAN AUTHORITIES SAID
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OF TIES
BETWEEN ANY TERRORIST GROUP AND
THE GUNMAN, WHO WAS A DUAL
GERMAN-IRANIAN CITIZEN.
INSIDE HIS HOME, POLICE HAVE
FOUND BOOKS AND ARTICLES ON MASS
SHOOTERS, AND THE AUTHORITIES
SAID, HE HAD BEEN TREATED FOR
DEPRESSION.
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP, OR
ISIS, IS CLAIMING RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE DEADLIEST TERRORIST
ATTACK IN AFGHANISTAN IN MONTHS.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SAY A
SUICIDE BOMBER BLEW HIMSELF UP
AT A SHIITE DEMONSTRATION IN THE
CAPITAL OF KABUL TODAY, KILLING
AT LEAST 80 PEOPLE AND WOUNDING
MORE THAN 230 OTHERS.
IN ITS CLAIM, ISIS SAID IT
TARGETED PERSIAN-SPEAKING HAZARA
SHIITES, AFGHANISTAN'S THIRD
LARGEST MINORITY, WHO HAD
GATHERED TO DEMAND A NEW POWER
LINE FOR WHERE THEY LIVE.
TURKEY'S PRESIDENT IS EXPANDING
HIS CRACKDOWN ON POLITICAL
OPPONENTS FOLLOWING LAST
WEEKEND'S FAILED MILITARY COUP.
TODAY, RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN
CLOSED MORE THAN 2,000 SCHOOLS,
CHARITIES, AND TRADE UNIONS,
ALLEGING THEY HAVE LINKS TO
FETHULLAH GULEN, THE U.S.-BASED
CLERIC ERDOGAN ACCUSES OF
INSTIGATING THE UPRISING.
TURKEY ARRESTED GULEN'S NEPHEW
TODAY AND SAID IT WILL REQUEST
GULEN'S EXTRADITION FROM THE
U.S. WITHIN TEN DAYS.
ERDOGAN's GOVERNMENT HAS JAILED
AROUND 10,000 SOLDIERS, POLICE,
JUDGES, AND TEACHERS, AND HAS
FIRED OR SUSPENDED ABOUT 50,000
OTHERS.
TODAY, ERDOGAN EXTENDED THE
PERIOD SUSPECTS CAN BE HELD
WITHOUT CHARGE FROM FOUR DAYS TO
30 DAYS.
ALMOST A WEEK OF TORRENTIAL
RAINS HAS TRIGGERED DEADLY
FLOODING AND LANDSLIDES IN
CHINA, CAUSING 300,000 PEOPLE TO
EVACUATE THEIR HOMES.
OFFICIALS SAY AT LEAST 150
PEOPLE HAVE DIED, AND MORE THAN
120 OTHER PEOPLE ARE UNACCOUNTED
FOR, MOSTLY IN THE NORTHERN
PROVINCE OF HEBEI.
OFFICIALS SAY 50,000 HOMES ARE
DESTROYED.
ONE VILLAGE WASHED AWAY AS
RESIDENTS SLEPT.
SOME VILLAGERS TOOK TO SOCIAL
MEDIA TO SAY LOCAL OFFICIALS
FAILED TO NOTIFY THEM OF THE
DANGER IN TIME FOR THEM TO
EVACUATE.
IN IRAQ, TODAY WAS THE SECOND
HOTTEST DAY EVER RELIABLY
MEASURED ON EARTH.
THE TEMPERATURE REACHED A
SCORCHING 129 DEGREES FAHRENHEIT
IN THE CITY OF BASRA.
THAT'S SLIGHTLY BELOW THE DAY
IN 2013 WHEN THE MERCURY HIT
129.2 DEGREES IN DEATH VALLEY,
CALIFORNIA.
THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ASSOCIATION SAID
THIS WEEK THAT JUNE MARKED THE
14th MONTH IN A ROW OF RECORD
HIGH AVERAGE LAND AND OCEAN
TEMPERATURES FOR THE PLANET.
A SECOND LAWSUIT OVER TRUMP
UNIVERSITY IS MOVING FORWARD TO
TRIAL.
THE CALIFORNIA JUDGE PRESIDING
OVER THE CASE INDICATED IN COURT
YESTERDAY HE WILL REJECT A
MOTION BY REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE DONALD
TRUMP TO DISMISS A FEDERAL CLASS
ACTION BROUGHT BY FORMER
STUDENTS OVER THE DEFUNCT REAL
ESTATE EDUCATION PROGRAM.
THE LAWSUIT CLAIMS THE
UNIVERSITY WAS A "SCHEME TO
DEFRAUD" ATTENDEES WHO PAID UP
TO $35,000 TO ATTEND SEMINARS
TEACHING TRUMP'S BUSINESS
SECRETS.
JUDGE GONZALO CURIEL SAID
EVIDENCE SHOWS TRUMP HAD "AN
ONGOING ROLE" IN THE
UNIVERSITY'S MARKETING.
THE FIRST CASE BEFORE JUDGE
CURIEL IS SCHEDULED FOR TRIAL IN
NOVEMBER, AFTER ELECTION DAY.
VIRGINIA'S PLAN TO RESTORE
VOTING RIGHTS TO ALL EX-FELONS
IS ON HOLD.
THE STATE SUPREME COURT HAS
RULED THAT THE SWEEPING
EXECUTIVE ORDER BY DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNOR TERRY McAULIFFE IN
APRIL OVERSTEPPED HIS AUTHORITY.
THE COURT'S 4-3 DECISION
YESTERDAY SAID McAULIFFE CAN
RESTORE VOTING RIGHTS ONLY ON A
CASE BY CASE BASIS.
McAULIFFE'S ORDER HAD AIMED TO
MAKE MORE THAN 200,000
VIRGINIANS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE
AGAIN-- ALMOST HALF OF THEM
AFRICAN-AMERICAN.
McAULIFFE SAYS HE'LL RESTORE
VOTING RIGHTS FOR NEARLY 13,000
EX-FELONS WHO'VE APPLIED
INDIVIDUALLY TO RE-REGISTER.
ABOUT SIX MILLION AMERICANS
CANNOT VOTE DUE TO PAST FELONY
CONVICTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: DURING A VISIT
TO NICE, FRANCE, SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY VISITED AN
AMERICAN HOSPITALIZED WITH
INJURIES FROM THE JULY 14
TERRORIST TRUCK ATTACK.
THE PATIENT WAS NOT IDENTIFIED.
TWO AMERICANS WERE KILLED AND
THREE WERE INJURED WHEN A MAN
DROVE A TRUCK ALONG THE NICE
PROMENADE FOLLOWING BASTILLE DAY
FIREWORKS, KILLING 84 PEOPLE.
AND FINALLY, RUSSIAN BALLOONIST
FYODOR KONYUKHOV HAS CLAIMED A
NEW WORLD RECORD AFTER FLYING
AROUND THE WORLD SOLO AND
NONSTOP IN JUST OVER 11 DAYS.
THE 64-YEAR-OLD RUSSIAN ORTHODOX
PRIEST TOUCHED DOWN TODAY IN THE
AUSTRALIAN OUTBACK NEAR WHERE HE
LIFTED OFF ON JULY 12.
HE BROKE THE RECORD OF 13 DAYS
TO BALLOON AROUND THE WORLD SET
IN 2002 BY AN AMERICAN,
THE LATE STEVE FOSSETT.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.